blog:bot helper CI Job (#293)
kubernetes/contributor-site: content/en/blog/2022/K8s Triage bot Helper CI Job_ ‘make update’.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "K8s Triage bot Helper CI Job: ‘*make update*’"

Reviewer: How about (using a YAML multiline string)
```suggestion
title: >-
  K8s Triage Bot Helper CI Job: "make update"
```

date: 2022-03-15
slug: k8s-triage-bot-helper-ci-job
---

> # K8s Triage bot Helper CI Job: ‘*make update*’

Reviewer: This title isn't needed; the theme renders it for you based on front matter.

> 

Reviewer: Add an author attribution here. Also, you don't need a heading “Introduction”; that can go without saying.

## Introduction 

> If you are contributing to the Kubernetes project and are developing on a Windows PC, it is conceivable that you will encounter certain issues that will cause your patches to master to somehow be halted. This blog is a workaround for a similar issue I encountered when attempting to have my modifications approved and merged into the master repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are contributing to the Kubernetes project and are developing on a Mac or on a Windows PC, you might struggle to use the built-in tools to help update files that you need to generate and include in your pull request. This article describes a workaround for a similar issue I encountered when attempting to have my modifications approved and merged in.
```

## Why is this needed?
 

> While contributing to [kubernetes/kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes) for some minor documentation changes, the pushed changes needed to be updated with other verified contents of the entire documentation. So, in order for the change to take effect, a single command must be performed to ensure that all tests on the CI pipeline pass. The single command `make update` runs all presubmission verification tests. For some reason on the windows `wsl` environment the tests, specifically the [update-openapi-spec.sh](https://github.com/SubhasmitaSw/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-openapi-spec.sh) script, failed (in my case, take a look at the conversation [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/107691)), eventually failing the `pull-kubernetes-verify` tests.

Reviewer: How about this wording:
```suggestion
While contributing to [k/kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes) for some minor documentation
changes, I read up on the steps to contribute and saw that I needed to include generates docs based on the
changes I wanted to make.
There is already a tool for this: `make update`, that prepares a set of generated files ready to pass Kubernetes' verification tests. You run `make update`, you commit your changes, you push the commit, and everything goes
green. Well that is what I hoped would happen.

On my PC I actually run Windows with Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). When the Make tool tried to run
[`update-openapi-spec.sh`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-openapi-spec.sh)
on my behalf that part failed, and this eventually let to my proposed change failing the `pull-kubernetes-verify` tests.
You can read some more context about these specific obstacles from the related
[pull request discussion](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/107691).
```

> Advertently, the test cases pass to generate the updated files in other beefy Operating Systems like mac or Linux.

### System info:

| OS name | Version | System type |Memory| WSL |
| ------- | ------- | ----------- | ---  | --- |
|Windows 11 home|10.0.22000 Build 22000|x64-based|8.00 GB|Ubuntu-20.04 (v2)|

You might encounter the following on your PR

> failing test cases notification from k8s-ci-robot

The tests failing the particular issue:

> ![Failed Test Cases](https://i.imgur.com/pjrfmIY.png)

Reviewer: Please host the images in this repo. External image links aren't as durable.

Consecutively, 

> ![Failed Test Cases robot comment](https://i.imgur.com/Lxj38kZ.png)

Reviewer: Please host the images in this repo. External image links aren't as durable.

Additionally one can check the failed test via the `link` provided under details in the above image.

### Potential solution
Run the failing `.sh` scripts individually known from the CI job output, to generate the expected files to fix up the failures. The `.sh` scripts can be found residing under the `hack/` directory at the root of the `kubernetes/kubernetes` code base. 

> > kubernetes/kubernetes &rarr; hack/ &rarr; `.sh` update files

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this is supposed to represent. An excerpt from running `find` would be clearer I think.

In this particular case, these files were to be run:

> * [hack/update-generated-protobuf.sh](https://github.com/SubhasmitaSw/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-generated-protobuf.sh) 
> * [hack/update-generated-swagger-docs.sh](https://github.com/SubhasmitaSw/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-generated-swagger-docs.sh)
> * [hack/update-openapi-spec.sh](https://github.com/SubhasmitaSw/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-openapi-spec.sh)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`hack/update-generated-protobuf.sh`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-generated-protobuf.sh) 
* [`hack/update-generated-swagger-docs.sh`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-generated-swagger-docs.sh)
* [`hack/update-openapi-spec.sh`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-openapi-spec.sh)
```

Consider using permalinks based on the commit ID that was current when this happened.

> ### Might run into something like these

Reviewer: How about
```suggestion
## Potential snags
```

**1. On Codespaces**

![codespaces error output](https://i.imgur.com/afGocE2.png)
![](https://i.imgur.com/dFD0fGL.png)

> **2. On vscode**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2. Using Visual Studio Code**
```
(I also would use an actual Markdown list if that's at all feasible)

![vscode error output](https://i.imgur.com/v1Fdo4A.png)

### Potential solution to the above error:
1. Remove the Makefile and Makefile.generated_files files:

        rm Makefile Makefile.generated_files
2. Create the symlinks:

        ln -s build/root/Makefile Makefile

        ln -s build/root/Makefile.generated_files Makefile.generated_files

> > PS: takes adequate time to generate the scripts on windows so go grab a :coffee:

Reviewer: This isn't a block quote, block quote markup isn't appropriate.

## The current situation

Many contributors do not have access to powerful environments in which to run `make update` or `make verify`. They can utilise *vscode/wsl/codespaces* and other tools to recommend modifications, but they might get tripped up by `make verify` scripts because in many cases, we end up with files that needs to be re-generated. It's a tall order for them to scan the build log from `make verify` to determine which specific scripts in `hack/` directory they need to run.

### Solution

> Two solutions are proposed by @dims for the time being:

Reviewer: (optionally)
```suggestion
Two solutions are proposed by [@dims](https://github.com/dims) for the time being:
```

> * **Short Term:** add a CI job that folks can trigger when they need it, that runs ‘make update’ and there's a zip file they can be told to download that has the changes after the command is triggered.

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
* **Short Term:** add a CI job that folks can trigger when they need it, that runs `make update` and provides a zip archive that they can be told to download. The archive includes all the files that changed as a result of running `make update.
```

> *  **Long Term:** can have a bot command that generates an addition commit on their PR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  **Long Term:** add a new Prow bot command that generates an additional commit on their PR
```

> ### Short Term Solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Short term solution
```

> Once we realized the problem was that some of the verify scripts needed either linux to work better or a large CPU/Memory even with linux, we decided to add a new CI job. This CI job is named “pull-kubernetes-update”. You can trigger this CI job by running “/test pull-kubernetes-update” bot command in any PR. This CI job runs `make update` and generates a zip file named “updated-files.zip” in the artifacts directory for that job. Folks can then download the zip which has the changes made when `make update` was run and update their PR with the newly updated code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problem was that for some of the verify scripts to work well, the scripts needed both Linux
and plenty of local resources (CPU, memory). Once we realized this issue, we decided to add a
new CI job. This CI job is named `pull-kubernetes-update`. You can trigger this CI job by commenting
`/test pull-kubernetes-update` as a Prow bot command in any Kubernetes PR. This CI job runs
`make update` and then generates a zip archive named `updated-files.zip` in the artifacts directory for
that job.
You can then download the archive which has the changes made when `make update` was run;
once the download is finished, you can update your PR with the newly updated code.
```

**Steps:**

> > Make sure to rebase your 'working branch' to 'master' to align with current changes made to the repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Make sure to rebase your 'working branch' against 'master' to align with current changes made to the repository._
```
This isn't a block quote, block quote markup isn't appropriate.

> On your PR, run 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On your PR, write a new comment that contains only the text:
```

---
layout: blog
title: "K8s Triage bot Helper CI Job: ‘*make update*’"

> date: 2022-03-15

Author: The actual date stands at 2022-02-25, should it be changed?

> date: 2022-03-15

Reviewer: This should be a date in the future. Ideally, co-ordinate that date with the [k/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/) blog team (eg: talk to me) as well so that it goes out on a day when no k/website PRs are due.

## Introduction 

If you are contributing to the Kubernetes project and are developing on a Windows PC, it is conceivable that you will encounter certain issues that will cause your patches to master to somehow be halted. This blog is a workaround for a similar issue I encountered when attempting to have my modifications approved and merged into the master repository.

## Why is this needed?
 
While contributing to [kubernetes/kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes) for some minor documentation changes, the pushed changes needed to be updated with other verified contents of the entire documentation. So, in order for the change to take effect, a single command must be performed to ensure that all tests on the CI pipeline pass. The single command `make update` runs all presubmission verification tests. For some reason on the windows `wsl` environment the tests, specifically the [update-openapi-spec.sh](https://github.com/SubhasmitaSw/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-openapi-spec.sh) script, failed (in my case, take a look at the conversation [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/107691)), eventually failing the `pull-kubernetes-verify` tests.

> > Advertently, the test cases pass to generate the updated files in other beefy Operating Systems like mac or Linux.

Reviewer 2: was this line supposed to be edited out?

Author: According to me, this provides a piece of background information on where this error possibly won't occur

Reviewer: This isn't a block quote, block quote markup isn't appropriate.

Can you reword? I don't understand what you wanted to convey.

Reviewer 2: I still don't understand what the line means, and it doesn't seem necessary for the article.

Author: I'll remove it.

### System info:

| OS name | Version | System type |Memory| WSL |
| ------- | ------- | ----------- | ---  | --- |
|Windows 11 home|10.0.22000 Build 22000|x64-based|8.00 GB|Ubuntu-20.04 (v2)|

## You might encounter the following on your PR

:::warning
:warning: failing test cases notification from k8s-ci-robot

> :::

Author: hackmd supports warning symbol block codes this way, but seems github markdown isn't up for it, I'll change them.

The tests failing the particular issue:

![](https://i.imgur.com/pjrfmIY.png)

Consecutively, 

![](https://i.imgur.com/Lxj38kZ.png)

Additionally one can check the failed test via the `link` provided under details in the above image.

### Potential solution
Run the failing `.sh` scripts individually known from the CI job output, to generate the expected files to fix up the failures. The `.sh` scripts can be found residing under the `hack/` directory at the root of the `kubernetes/kubernetes` code base. 

:::success
 kubernetes/kubernetes &rarr; hack/ &rarr; `.sh` update files
:::

In this particular case, these files were to be run:

* [hack/update-generated-protobuf.sh](https://github.com/SubhasmitaSw/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-generated-protobuf.sh) 
* [hack/update-generated-swagger-docs.sh](https://github.com/SubhasmitaSw/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-generated-swagger-docs.sh)
* [hack/update-openapi-spec.sh](https://github.com/SubhasmitaSw/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/update-openapi-spec.sh)

### Might run into something like these

**1. On Codespaces**

![](https://i.imgur.com/afGocE2.png)

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/dFD0fGL.png)

Reviewer 2: once again, image descriptions

**2. On vscode**

![](https://i.imgur.com/v1Fdo4A.png)

### Potential solution to the above error:
1. Remove the Makefile and Makefile.generated_files files:

        rm Makefile Makefile.generated_files
2. Create the symlinks:

        ln -s build/root/Makefile Makefile

        ln -s build/root/Makefile.generated_files Makefile.generated_files

:::info
PS: takes adequate time to generate the scripts on windows so go grab a :coffee:.

> :::

Author: comment block

### Short Term Solution

Once we realized the problem was that some of the verify scripts needed either linux to work better or a large CPU/Memory even with linux, we decided to add a new CI job. This CI job is named “pull-kubernetes-update”. You can trigger this CI job by running “/test pull-kubernetes-update” bot command in any PR. This CI job runs `make update` and generates a zip file named “updated-files.zip” in the artifacts directory for that job. Folks can then download the zip which has the changes made when `make update` was run and update their PR with the newly updated code.

**Steps:**

:::info
Make sure to rebase your 'working branch' to 'master' to align with current changes made to the repository. 
:::
On your PR, run 

    /test pull-kubernetes-update

![](https://i.imgur.com/orTfQXz.png)

You will see the automated check lists and details.

![](https://i.imgur.com/jfK9js5.png)

Once the checks are complete, click the `Details` link on `pull-kubernetes-update` job to go to the artifacts directory and  download the `updated-files.zip` file.

![](https://i.imgur.com/8O02Arv.png)

![](https://i.imgur.com/bsYqKMc.png)

![](https://i.imgur.com/pNEdgYH.png)

> Now, update :rocket: the PR by adding the extracted files you downloaded. 

Author: was supposed to be a cheerful emoji for completing the pr, should've removed it.

> Now, update :rocket: the PR by adding the extracted files you downloaded. 

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
Now, update the PR, adding the extracted files you downloaded. You're done! 🚀
```
